
Strategic Decision Making Utilizing Neural Networks Trained with Optimal Patterns from Reinforcement Learning

 There are many AI programs that use machine learning to make strategic decisions including board games like Go. Since the discovery of machine learning, one of the largest issues has been collecting and preparing training data. Usually, the training data is created by human means. I aimed to address this issue by using reinforcement learning to create optimal training patterns that the neural networks can then use to learn. Using reinforcement learning to create the training patterns means that there is no human effort to create the patterns, solving the issue of time-consuming training pattern creation.
 
  To apply my approach to data generation and neural networks, I decided to code a neural network that played the children's game, Tic Tac Toe. Though the game seems simple at first, it is in reality a complex game with many things to consider. There are over 19,000 possible board states and over 255,000 possible games of Tic Tac Toe. There is a perfect algorithm that guarantees a win or a draw.
  
  For testing criteria, I aimed to create a 3-layer neural network trained by data from reinforcement learning that would be capable of playing Tic Tac Toe. Its test opponent would be a random player that plays its marker in an empty space. I will also create an expert program that will never lose a game to compete with the neural network. My project is a set of programs. They together will create the data, teach the neural network, and be able to apply the knowledge in games of Tic Tac Toe. In the end, with optimal settings, out of 10,000 games against random player, my network wins 52.57% of games, draws 45.93% of games, and loses 1.5% of games. The minimal losses are more important than the win or draw rate because due to the fact that my network always goes second, losing is much more likely.
  
  Overall, reinforcement learning is an effective way to generate data to teach a neural network to play Tic Tac Toe and therefore make strategic decisions.
